## 2. [Open Source and Repo Setup](2_set_up_repo/readme.md) Reflection

* Explain how to create a repository on GitHub and clone the repository to your local computer to a non-technical person
* Describe what open source means
* What do you think about Open Source? Does it make you nervous or protective? Does it feel like utopia?
* Assess the importance of using licenses
* What concepts were solidified in the challenge? Did you have any "aha" moments? What did you struggle with?
* Did you find any resources on your own that helped you better understand a topic? If so, please list it.

<!-- Add your reflection here. Remove the comment markers -->
Creating a new repository (or "repo") is fairly fast and straightforward to do.  First you head to your profile homepage and in the upper right-hand corner of the screen you'll see a "+" sign with a dropdown menu when you click on it.   Do so and you'll see an option that says "New Repository," click on that.  This will bring you to a new page in which you can give your new repo a name and assign any specific features related to it.  The name is up to you but generally you should use a name that is easy to remember and short.   You should provide a brief "tag-line" description of what your repo subject matter will be, make sure its public (unless you want it to be private but you need a premium account for that) and then check the box that initializes the "README" file.  One of the last things you'll do is assign it a license such as MIT.  Then click "create repository," and your done!  WOOP WOOP!

But now you need to make sure you have your own local copy of the repository on your computer so you can make edits, etc. As of this moment, your repository only exists on the GitHub site, remotely, so lets get our very own local copy.  There are two ways of going about this: (1) if you have a Mac or Windows desktop GitHub app, or (2) using the terminal command line.   If you use the desktop app, simply open it and select your github username on the left side bar menu.  Then in the search bar, type in the repository name you assigned and it should showup in the list below the search bar.  You'll see a button next to it that says, "clone to computer" which you should click on.  BOOM, your done.  If you're using the terminal command line, first open your terminal and navigate to or create a folder for your repository to live (e.g. ~ username/new_repo1).  Then, go to the github repo you just created and in the lower left-hand corner you'll see something that says "HTTPS clone URL" with a link you can copy.  Copy it. Now head back to your terminal.  Once there, type in the following command:  git clone [repo url].  BOOM, your done (again)!

Now referring back to something that we discussed previously, licenses.  Basically, licenses are a tool that allow you, more specifically developers, to provide open source coding.  Everything you do related to writing code is copyrighted automatically in the US and in order to allow others to use, contribute, change, or whatever to yorur code, you need to give them the right to do so.  And that's where licenses come in to play.  This allows a free flow of information, specifically code, to the entire community of developers.  I'm starting to get this strong feeling that the dev community is ALL ABOUT collaborating, and you should be getting that feeling too!  But its important to note that there are a variety of licenses with a variety of restrictions, so be sure to know your license's provisions. 

Personally, I think open source, through the utilization of licenses, is a great thing and it allows ideas to flourish, the dev community to colloborate and share their ideas. Ultimately, I think its a snowball affect -- as more people work and share with one another, the knowledge base expands and everyone benefits.  But don't get me wrong, there are always potential downsides such as giving credit where its due, potential lawsuits for products created from original code, etc.  But we'll have to see how that ultimately plays out. 

This overview of the repositories and how open source works was a great lesson to learn.  Before this lesson, I really wasn't understanding what the big deal was about open source, had no idea what licenses had to do with it and generally just feel better about how repositories work.  Some of the resources referenced in this lesson were also really helpful but not just because of the content they linked to but also that it lead to some other resources that were helpful such as the open source inititative which as some great info.  
